## *Core Revenue Sources*
* **Furniture sales.** Spofford design’s ultimate goal is to sell furniture co-created by actors within our network. For each piece of furniture sold, the designer receives a percentage based on a standard licensing fee to be determined. Manufacturers receive cash payments for value added, in addition to royalties based on their participation in the design process. Consumers who have preordered furnitured based on prototypes receive a royalty proportionate to their risk. A cut is reinvested into the megaregional network to cover expenses incurred during the prototyping process, as well as invested into the megaregion itself in the form of support for workforce development or other educational endeavors that benefit Spofford Design and its networks in the long term. A final, significant proportion of each sale goes to Spofford Design as revenue. Initially Spofford Design’s collection will include curated second hand and repurposed furniture, and conventionally design pieces purchase at cost from designers.
* **Recurring membership dues.** Baseline recurring revenue comes from membership dues paid by manufacturers, designers, and consumers in exchange for services, discounts, and access. Appropriate products and services will emerge during our ongoing human-centered design process and network development efforts. Pricing for each type of member will vary, with manufacturers paying the most and consumers the least, and Spofford will tier each member type’s pricing in a manner to be determined.
* **Investment income.** Spofford Design’s vision for a decentralized model entails multiple investments in independent businesses that serve as essential parts of the value chain and the experiences provided to network members. These include stand-alone next generation retail establishments (see “Marketing and Sales”), fabrication facilities, and Spofford’s prototyping hubs. Spofford would like to see returns on investments within three years of the start of the investment.

## *Equity and Stock Options*
Spofford partners possess an equity stake in the company with a four-year vesting schedule. Managers qualify for stock options depending on their preference. Spofford Design does not offer equity or options to associates, or to employees of its network of businesses. These businesses may or may not offer equity on their own if that seems like an appropriate choice, and Spofford Design will respect financial and managerial autonomy. Nonetheless, it will always consider a cooperative model for the businesses it helps to start when the situation is appropriate.

## *Outside Financing*
Spofford Design’s investment strategy breaks to some degree with the conventional rounds of funding, as we anticipate revenue accrued from diverse sources. We also wish to grow thoughtfully and learn as much as possible in its first few years without undue or unreasonable pressure to grow in a manner that doesn’t reflect the dynamics of our markets or our organization’s needs. Spofford will raise necessary startup capital from the following sources:
* **Initial Angel Investments ($250,000).** This initial investment will facilitate the purchase of an initial inventory to be sold in next generation retail establishments. It will also finance efforts to solidify Spofford’s design process and community development efforts.
* **Seed Round ($1.4 million).** Half of this investment will go towards starting the prototyping hubs in the megaregions where Spofford is active. It will also finance increased headcount to support expansion into new megaregions.
* **Grant awards.** It is our belief that Spofford presents a clear cut effort to bring economic activity and growth to areas currently struggling, as well as a novel opportunity for creating new and uniquely inclusive networks within regions. Spofford will actively seek out public sector and nonprofit partners making awards to support work like ours.

## *Financial and Cost Management*
Spofford Design anticipates a monthly burn rate capping at $33,000 at the end of the current six-month period. Current proformas indicate a predictable month-over-month increase, and Adam Hasler, CEO, will review, with additional periodic review from an accounting professional, costs relative to predictions in the proformas. Recurring costs include one partner-level salary and two manager-level salaries, as well as travel costs incurred from network development efforts.

Investment capital lives within a money market account. Every two weeks an automatic, set transfer to the debit account is made to cover anticipated expenses. An additional transfer is made to the savings account. In the event that debits exceed anticipated run rate, we will make up the difference with savings (not additional moneys from the investment account, unless absolutely necessary). All revenue collected goes into the revenue account, which is also cleared every two weeks and deposited into the investment account.
